---
title: "TIFF 2023: Part 2"
description: _Ru_, _The Breaking Ice_, _Backspot_
date: 2023-09-26
tags:
  - tiff
  - movies
image: ../../images/blog/seagrass2.jpg
---

Part 2 of 2! 

(see [Part 1 here](placeholder))

# [_Ru_](placeholder)

This film follows a family of Vietnamese refugees as they resettle in Quebec after fleeing the aftermath of their country's civil war. A lot rests on the performance of [Chloe Djandji](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm15036167/), who plays Tinh, the oldest child, and the main point-of-view character. At first, I wasn't impressed by her blank expression, but as the film proceeds to show us visually striking flashbacks of their difficult journey, I came to appreciate her stillness.

The rest of her family seems to be carrying on with their lives, while she remains stuck. Perhaps she alone experienced the worst of the trauma, as we see in the most memorable scene: a truly stunning moment where an explosion in the flashback throws detritus onto the snowy schoolyard in the present.

I'm hesitant to wade into controversial waters here, but I couldn't help but TK

# [_The Breaking Ice_](placeholder)

The viewing experience of _The Breaking Ice_ by Anthony Chen feels like going on a vacation to a place that you would never imagine choosing for a holiday. The story takes place in the Chinese city of Yanji, which borders North Korea. Many Koreans live there, and the place is a mix of two cultures.

As the title suggests, it's a cold place. I would never choose to go there for a vacation, but one of the main trio of characters works as  a tour guide, and as the film progresses, I started to see the appeal. Although the weather is unwelcoming, or perhaps because it is unwelcoming, the film feels like an escape. 

